TITLE: Privacy Policy | Rajalakshmi Engineering College
SOURCE_URL: https://www.rajalakshmi.org/privacy
SOURCE_TYPE: website

Privacy Policies
Your privacy
Rajalakshmi Engineering College (REC) values your privacy and so this website does not collect Personal Information about you when you visit the site. You can generally visit the site without revealing Personal Information, unless you choose to provide such information. We are committed to ensuring the security and protection of the personal information we process. Personal information is information which identifies you, or which can be identified as relating to you personally (for eg., name, address, email address, phone number). We will make every reasonable effort to protect your privacy by adopting a high level of website security and adhering to institution policies on how we store and use personal information.
This policy relates to our use of the personal information we collect from you, or that you provide to us, via the online services we make available to you, via phone, email, letters and other correspondence, and in person. It has been created to help you understand our views and practices regarding your personal information. Please note that this policy is effective only within Rajalakshmi Engineering College domain, and does not apply to websites that may be accessible from external links suggested at various pages of this website. This policy may be updated from time to time and all such updates will be posted in the privacy policy page. By using this website, you agree the terms and policies mentioned here.
We recommend that you read this policy prior to using our websites, products or services. If we change this notice we will post the changes on this page, and may place notices on other pages of the website, so that you will be aware of the personal information we collect and how we will use it. If you use this website or our products and services, or access our content on this website, after any such change has been made, you will be deemed to have read and accepted the change.
Information Collection and Use
While most pages of this website is accessbile without providing any personal information, some pages of this website will only be accessible after registration by providing specific data. These page include, but are not limited to Registration for Admission, Registration for Academic Courses, Registration for Academic/Cultural Events organized by the Institute, Donations, Books, Journals and Alumni Profiles. We will only use your personal information for the purposes for which it was obtained. We will not, under any circumstances, sell or trade your personal information. We will not share your personal information with any third party for their own purposes unless we have made you aware of this at the time of collecting your personal information. For example, if we run an event in partnership with other named organisations, your details may need to be shared. We will be very clear what will happen to your data when you register.
However, Rajalakshmi Engineering College may reveal the collected information to its selected employees, agents, consultants and sister institutions for academic activities. The Institute may also divulge the information to law enforcement authorities, courts and such others if need arises.
We may use carefully selected companies to provide services on our behalf, including data hosting services, delivering postal mail, sending emails, analysing data and processing credit/debit card or direct debit payments. We will only provide those companies with the information they need to deliver the relevant service, and we make sure that your data is treated with the same level of care as if we were handling it directly.
We may also disclose your personal information to third parties if we are under a duty to disclose or share your personal data in order to comply with any legal obligation, or in order to enforce or apply our terms and conditions or other agreements, or to protect the rights, property, or safety of REC, our members, supporters and visitors. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organisations for the purposes of fraud protection.
Site Visit Data
This website records your visit and logs the following information for statistical purposes: address of your server; the name of the top-level domain from which you access the Internet (for example, .gov, .com, .in, etc.); the type of browser you use; the date and time you access the site; the pages you have accessed and the documents downloaded and the previous Internet address from which you linked directly to the site. We will not identify users or their browsing activities, except when a law enforcement agency may exercise a warrant to inspect the service provider's logs.
Cookies
A cookie is a piece of software code that an internet web site sends to your browser when you access information at that site. This website uses “cookies” to track usage and manage services on the website.
Security
At Rajalakshmi Engineering College, we take every possible precaution to ensure that your data is safe and secure barring circumstances beyond our control. Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee control over the medium of transmission i.e., internet. Though you have to provide the necessary information at your own risk, Rajalakshmi Engineering College will always try to ensure the security and safety of the same. Once we receive the data, we will strive to keep it secure using the latest technology, regular upgrades to our digital security infrastructure and restricted access.
TERMS and CONDITIONS:
Please follow the instructions carefully.
Once you select the "PAY NOW" option, you will be redirected to the payment gateway.
Please select your option of payment and complete the transaction.
Payment process normally takes a few seconds / minute(s) based on your internet connectivity you will receive a PAYMENT CONFIRMATION SLIP if the payment is successful. Please keep the slip for future reference.
If the payment is NOT SUCCESSFUL due to any reason, the status of the payment failure will be displayed in the screen.
In case none of the above two happens, and there is heavy delay in any response from the system - if you have not proceeded with payment and not given card detail particulars, you may proceed from the beginning again and start the payment process again.
In case you have given all the debit / credit card details or net baking authorization for payment, and have not got any response, please check with your bankers or credit card company and see if your account is debited. If your bank account / credit card is debited, please don't make any attempt to pay again.
However, if your account is not debited in the bank, you have to make the payment and get PAYMENT SUCCESSFUL confirmation.
If the transaction has FAILED for some reasons, you are REQUESTED TO WAIT for THREE DAYS before trying for payment again. Please contact the accounts department for any discrepancy of online fee faced by you with reference to any of your transaction.
Please make a note of Reference/Transaction Details in case of Net banking or Card payment.
Cancellation/Refund Policy
There is NO CANCELLATION option for the end users once payment is made.
Students/Parents can approach the Accounts Department for refund with proof of the transaction reference/ your bank statement, in case of duplicate payment.
IMPORTANT NOTE:
By submitting a payment through the online payment gateway, you are agreeing to these terms and conditions including any updated changes in terms and conditions from time to time through our website.
Mode of Payments : NET BANKING / DEBIT CARD / CREDIT CARD / UPI / WALLET
