TITLE: Mechatronics Engineering | Rajalakshmi Engineering College
SOURCE_URL: https://www.rajalakshmi.org/departments/mct
SOURCE_TYPE: website

Introduction
Programmes Offered
UG - B.E. Mechatronics Engineering
VISION
To attain excellence in academics, research and technological advancement in Mechatronics Enginnering with a concern in society
MISSION
To impart high quality professional education and produce Mechatronics Engineers with all round knowledge of multi-disciplinary branches of engineering and technology.
To foster skill sets required to be a global professional in the areas of intelligent systems, robotics, research and technology management and to fulfill the expectations of industry and needs of the society.
To inculcate entrepreneurial qualities for creating, developing and managing global engineering ventures.
B.E. MECHATRONICS ENGINEERING
B.E. Mechatronics Engineering was introduced in the academic year 2015-2016 in direct response to the industrial demand for engineers with multi-disciplinary skills.
Mechatronics is a synergistic blend of mechanical, electrical, electronics, computer science, information technology, and control systems to design, execute and maintain products with intelligence. Mechatronics has a wide range of applications from Industrial Automation to biomedical.
Robotics can be viewed as a subdivision of mechatronics that focuses on sophisticated control of mechanisms with mobility.
Mechatronics engineers create and improve automated processes and they are well-known for their strong logical and problem-solving abilities and find employment in a wide range of domains.
The curriculum is framed to address the current industrial needs and future technological advancements with a special focus on Machine learning, Artificial intelligence, robotics and automation, etc.
WHY MECHATRONICS ENGINEERING
Opportunities after mechatronics engineering are limitless.
Opportunities mainly in the electronics industry, industries like automobile, robotics.
This degree will be flexible and will be able to give you job opportunities in all the fields like computer science, mechanical industries as well as electrical and electronics industries along with good communications, technical skills
Mechatronics students play a vital role in the implementation IoT-enabled devices, Industry 4.,0 and,, robotics.
Updated on 31.05.2026
