TITLE: About Rajalakshmi | Rajalakshmi Engineering College
SOURCE_URL: https://www.rajalakshmi.org/about
SOURCE_TYPE: website

Our Story
Rajalakshmi Engineering College, an autonomous institution affiliated to Anna University, Chennai, was established in the year 1997 under the aegis of Rajalakshmi Educational Trust whose members have had consummate experience in the fields of education and industry. The College has grown from strength to strength over the last 3 decades and progressing towards Excellence in Engineering Education, Research and Development.
Started with 3 Under Graduate programmes in Engineering with an annual intake of 180 students in 1997, the College presently offers 19 Under Graduate and 9 Post Graduate programmes including MBA program, with an annual intake of 4000 students. The approval of AICTE and affiliation of the Anna University for such a progressive intake is a standing testimony for the continuous growth of the college over the years. All the departments are recognized as Research Centers of Anna University to conduct Ph.D. and M.S. (By Research) programmes and many scholars have obtained Ph.D. through these research centres.
Ours is one among the few Colleges to receive accreditation for Under Graduate Engineering programmes from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA), New Delhi, as soon as attaining the eligibility to apply for accreditation. The College is accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with 'A++' Grade. The college has also secured 12(b) status from UGC. Anna University, Chennai has granted Permanent Affiliation for 10 UG courses viz. Aeronautical Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, Biotechnology, Civil Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Information Technology and 4 PG Courses viz. M.Tech - Biotechnology, M.E. Computer Science and Engineering, M.E. Communication Systems and Master of Business Administration.
The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), Government of India has recognized the College as a Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (SIRO), considering its potential for Research and Development activities.
Vision
To be a Global Leader in engineering & management education, research and innovation, empowering individuals to drive transformative change for a sustainable future.
Mission
To provide a transformative learning experience nurturing innovation, design thinking, lifelong learning for global competence.
To forge cutting-edge research through Trans-disciplinary academia and industry collaborations to address sustainability, energy and environmental challenges.
To promote diversity, inclusivity and leadership upholding humane values and ethics
